---
layout: post
title:  "SXSW 2014 Notes"
---

THOUGHTS
===
Responsive Web Design - *RWD*
---
- We are currently doing RWD for a small set of existing screen sizes. 
  - Desktop, Tablet, Phone
  - Most of these are **lean forward** screens.
- Gaming Consoles are a growing % of online traffic. 
    - Pizza Hut made a ordering app that used XBoxONE Kinnect to order pizza. 
    - Consoles are an example of a **lean back device**
- We are not addressing RWD for very large (in-store, billboard), very small, or non-traditonal screens (*wearables*).
    - Predict to see an explosion in wearables devices over the next 5 years. 
    - If these devices are connected how can we get our content to them.
    - Same goes for set top boxes.
        
Prototyping
---
- The current method of design with static mockups does not cut it in a modern world. 
- Mockups are a high visual and structural fidelity but a low interactive fidelity.
- A Mockup is work that just gets thrown away after development starts.
- Mockups have no fidetly to show the interaction / animation of a website. 
    - Modern sites use more and more interaction and animation.
- Mockups do not show RWD
- Mockups are not built with Core Web Technologies (HTML/CSS/JS) 
- Prototyping with HTML and CSS allows you to work through Interaction/Animation/RWD ideas using the same technology as the final site.
- Prototypes can potentially be used in the final production version of the site.
- Prototypes should not be about pushing pixels around to get visual perfection.
- Prototypes should be used to explore how an idea works.
- How do we use Prototypes when we do client work that expects to see a Pixel Perfect Mockup?
- How can we use a more true Agile methodology in our design/dev process?
    - Shorter cycles with sprints in them. 
        - Does this work with client design work?
    - More meetings with notes to help explain interaction and ideas from the design.
- We are sort of starting to do this with our sites.
    - Start backend development after Wireframes are approved
    - Build functional prototypes of tricky interactions and animations to prove they will work.
    - How can we get better?
        
REST API Design
---
- API ease of use > REST purity
- URL parameters over header vars 
    - Cleaer to the developer using your API
- Pagination
    - Think about returning the URLs for the *next* & *previous* pages. 
        - Makes things easier on the user
- Think about adding a last updated timestamp or using ETAGS to not have return data.
- Having a last fetched/synced stamp as input or output to help with "pull to refresh" type use cases 
    
Data Sync API from Dropbox
---
- Very cool API that uses a user's dropbox account to store/share data for your application.
- Can store both Data and Files
- Supports Data Syncing across devices and online/offline.
- Showed an example game (click the box) where the current level in the game is synced between devices using Dropbox 
        
SXSW Create
---
- Film/Video and Creative teams need a drone copter camera.
    - They could get amazing shots that are currently impossible or costly.
- 3D printing and the Maker movement
    - Are there ways we can leverage these technologies for our clients?


SESSIONS 
===
How MailChimp uses AI - John Foreman 
---
- MailChimp uses AI to ID spam and not have a review process
- **CONTEXT** - Mail is SPAM because the recipient says it is, not just the content of the message.
- Based on context MailChimp can show CAPTCHA to a user it thinks is a spammer.
- Mail Chimp can tell a company the best time to send a message to a user.
    - Maximize opens.
- Other uses of CONTEXT adapting a message
    - Google Search Results knowing where you are and what you are searching for. 
        - "Local Restaurant Ribbon" at top of results
    - Disney Parks using tracker wristbands that know what guests have been doing. 
        - This allows characters in the park to customize their conversation to a child based on the data collected by their wristband
        
Next Gen Responsive
---
- Be prepared for every screen
    - Wearables, Big Screens (Digital Signage), Interactive Touch Signage, Cars, Appliances, Game Consoles
- Agile Development - working closely with the Content and Client
    - Do not wait until the end to put **REAL CONTENT** into a design mockup
- Show Analytics and Industry Norms about mobile to clients and your agency
    - Educate both internal and external
- Collaberative Development with Creative and Business side. 
    - Start early in the cycle.
- We need more UI/UX deliverables than the traditional final comp.
- Be respectful of a user's data plan
    - Worldwide low bandwith is more common than 3G/4G
- Netflix killed their mobile site (signup / payment side). 
    - 1 platform to handle payment conversions. Also used on their Android app.
- Netflix designs for different experiences
    - 10 ft experience (smart TVs, consoles, Roku, etc)
    - Tablet
    - Phone
    - Web / Desktop
- Countries with no infrastructure really want mobile first.
    - They had to go this direction, because no traditional net infrasctructure. 
        - Started with mobile access.
    - Global marketplace can't grow with native apps
- Gaming Consoles are increasingly used for web surfing.
    - XboxOne Pizza Hut app to design/deliver pizza using Kinect.
-How do we get content to cars, wearables and other non-standard devices
- The **CONTEXT** is more important than the **DEVICE** when customizing a design. 
- Currently we make assumptions about CONTEXT based on the device.
    - Phone does not mean you are on the go. You could be in bed and just don't want to use your laptop.
    - It is difficult to get CONTEXT information about what the user wants.
- Content should be available regardless of device
- Animations do not need to be the same on all devices
- CONTEXT IS SUBJECTIVE
- **Get the right content to the user at the right time.**
    - Google Now does a great job of this.

API Design Patterns beyond REST - Jeremiah Lee from FitBit
---
- [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/jeremiahlee/good-to-great-api-design-patterns-beyond-rest)
- No Best Practices for API design
    - There are frameworks and patterns, but you must do research of your API users to make a great API.
- The **Resource Verb** Philosiphy of API Design
    - Think about API Usability 1st
    - User adoption is the highest priority
    - Know your users
    - Eliminate Pain
    - No design is perfect
    - Uses Cases over Technical Purity
    - Errors and Corrective Guidance matter alot.
    - Be Obvious
- HTTP - 3 Places for data in REST
    - Method and URL
    - Headers
    - Body
- URLS should show that data/resource fall into groups
- Use HTTP VERBS 
    - PUT expects a complete resource
    - PATCH can handle partial data
- Add Verbs to the end of the URL for actions on a resource.
    - POST to that resource
    - Examples: /{article}/publish, /{article}/star
- Allow users to Specify Content Type
    - Extension to the end of the URL clearly shows the data expected (.json, .xml, .html)
    - Can use header vars, but this is less clear and harder to work with for a developer
- Dates, 3 different date formats (twitter, 4sq, Bing) some are easier for humans, others are easier for computers. Pick the right date format
- Collections
    - use an array when collection order matters
    - use objects when it is value based
- Use Query String Parameters for sorting, limiting, searching, pagnation, syncing of a collection
- Pagnation return next / previous URL in the result to help dev know which URLs to call to get the data
- Refresh Since/Last parameter in the Header to help with data syncing
- Use the Best HTTP Error Code
  - if using JSON return "error" as top level property
- use Oath1a/2 for authentication.
    - Simple Auth is great for API testing, should not be used in production
- Add versioning to the API URL from the begining
- The Secret to machines talking to machines is to *speak human first.*
Caught the end of a Barbarian Group talk 
---
- They were talking about Cinder to do data visualization
    - look at libcinder.org
    - also look at Processing and OpenFrameworks

Brand to Code - Building a Future Friendly PBS Kids
---
- Redesigned the entire PBS Kids Brand (not just the website)
- Old Brand was difficult for Digital to work with
- Digital was involed from the begining for the entire rebrand
- Brand look was decided so that stuff that would work great digitally
    - Easy to work with
    - Easy to create more assets with it down the line
    - Easy to grow the site
- They kept their existing logo and main color #99CC00
- Flat 2D illustrations for the brand. 
    - Same style is also used for assets about each show
- Commisioned a Custom Font instead of licensing an existing font
    - Online, Native Apps, TV, Print, distribute font to each PBS Kids affiliate station.
    - Liked having a font they would not need to relicense in the future for
      new platforms
- Built a proof of concept
    - Functional Prototypes about the UX of the site.
    - Started building as the brand was being finalized. Did not wait until
      finalized.
    - Allowed them to start user testing more quickly after the brand was finalized.
- The WHEEL NAV was huge with kids and parents.
    - Testing showed that they had to keep it.
- *Don't trash everything. EVOLVE WHAT WORKS.*
- Old site was built in Flash and had a m. mobile site
- Scrapped all of their code except the databases
- Built a new modern site
    - Responsive but had to do a lot of feature detection
    - Kept big callouts for GAMES, SHOWS, VIDEOS.
        - Kids associated with these.
    - Ability to theme the design. 
        - Content/Layout stays, but look changes.
        - Change the theme out over time, Keep good themes. Kill the ones that do not work
- Make it Future Friendly
    - They wanted a site with longer than a 2 year shelf life
    - They wanted the site to grow with kids in their age group (2-10) years of age
- Don't make assumptions about what technology is here today and tomorrow
- Device agnostic 
    - Work on old and new devices

- Feature Detection 
    - Flash, Canvas, SVG, CSS Animation
- Browser Engine detection instead of Browser Version
    - longer shelf life than just browser version
- Try not to be browser or device specific.
    - Do this late if we have to 
    - Get the experience right

- Use more than screen width to detect mobile
    - Mulitlevel detection

- Did RWD their way
    - Did not use hard breakpoints
    - Wanted a very app / fullscreen site experience
    
- Focued on Features and Content

- Lots of back and forth with Dev and Design
    
- Wanted the site to work on weird un-heard of sceen sizes that might exist in the future

- Wheel was made in Canvas with Flash then HTML Carousel fallbacks

- Some games/minisites are still in Flash
    - They need to hide the links to the these sites for people who can't use Flash
    
- **You can't argue broken**
    
- Adaptive Content
    - Try not to show content that will not work on a user's device
    - They had 10 years of flash games, they did not want to scrap them.
- How they did it.
    - Dev and Design worked together
    - But they had a shared skillset
- **No Hand-Offs**
    - Design and Dev worked close together throughout the process
- Only 2 design mockups
    - Hero View
    - Tiny View
- Designed in Code and filled in the blanks
- Very collaberative and organic process

Protyping with HTML / CSS 
---
- [Slides](jasonspeaking.com/nextux-sxsw)
- So much time is wasted making 1-for-1 mockups instead of making products
- Leads to a Client / Designer / Developer Disconnect
- Bad Waterfall Process
- **PS mockups do not work anymore**
- **UX does not stop when the page loads**
    - PS/static mockups stop when the page loads
- We prototype to answer the question "WHAT IF?"
- Prototypes let you test and validate your ideas.
- Wireframe Prototypes show the structure
- We need an Interactive Prototype
- Prototypes gets people to understand better than talking about a static mockup does.
- FIDELITY CLIFF
    - You hit a point where you spend more and more time to get more fidelity.
        - This is when we stop solving the problem with prototypes and start development
        - Caused by a desire for PIXEL PERFECTION
        - Cannot answer all Questions before development
        - Relying on Detailed Deliverables.
        - We are desiging in a medium other than the web.

- Stop Prototyping when you stop answering the question **"WHAT IF?"** and start pushing pixels around.
- Forget Pixel Perfect Comps
- Iterate with Time Limits (SPRINTS FROM THE SCRUM/AGILE WORLD)
- Rarely does a non-perfect design cause a catastrophic failure.
    - Things can be fixed during development
- EMBRACE AGILE
    - Talk and Make notes vs hand-offs.
    - Collaberate between Design and Dev
- Designers learn enough HTML/CSS to speak the language
- Developers learn basic UX principles
- Keep a Dynamic Style Guide
    - Build in HTML/CSS
    - Show all elements on a BIG HTML page
- Create a UI component Library
- Gannet is using Bootstrap and Angular.JS for their prototypes
- **Poor tools can hinder great artists**
- We need a tool that can easily create interactive prototypes
- Good Tool Requirements
    - Can handle RWD
    - Can show Structrual Fidelity (layout/wireframe)
    - Can show Visual Fidelity (look/design)
    - Can show Interactive Fidelity
    - Uses core web technologies (HTML/CSS/JS)
    - [List of exising tools](http://www.jasonspeaking.com/presentations/nextux-sxsw/#/5/9)

- Ideally a prototype can be sent straight to development to be finished.

App Data Everywhere - Leah Culver - Dropbox
---
- [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/leah/app-data-everywhere-cross-device-content-sharing)
- We can use Dropbox to store and sync data for an app across platforms and devices
- Data is stored in the user's dropbox account. They own their data.
- We should limit our apps permission to only what our app needs
- Files are available everywhere across devices and offilne.
- Drobox Core API and Sync API and DataStore API
    - can work with files and data
- Sync data between web/ios/android
- Showed an example game called "click the box" the syncs the user's current level
- Data Sync API
    - handles conflict resolution with data revisions
